NAME: Brendon Ng
EMAIL: brendonn8@gmail.com
ID: 304925492


Description of Files:



Question 2.1.1 - causing conflicts:
It takes many iterations before errors are seen becaue there has to be enough
iterations to take up multiple threads. If there are not enough iterations,
only one thread will be used so threads are not stepping on each other's
toes, even if we initialize more than one thread.

Question 2.1.2 - cost of yielding:
Yield runs are slower because threads are constantly giving up the CPU causing
more context switches. These switches slow down the program and add time to the
process. The additional time is used hault a thread, save its state, load
another thread's state and restart that new thread. It is not possible to get
valid per-operation timings if we use --yield because the time used for context
switches would be in the total time and therefore would cause noise in seeing
true per-operation times.

Question 2.1.3 - measurement errors:
The average cost per operations drops with increasing iterations because the
average cost per operation is a function of the total time of the program which
encompasses the time to create the threads which is a very heavy operation.
The more iterations we have, the more it dilutes this operation and the less
significance this operation has.

Question 2.1.4 - costs of serialization:
At low thread values, the options perform similarly because the cost of
blocking is smaller because there are less threads to wait for. As theads
increase, the amount of time you have to wait at a critical section increases
so the operations slow down as theads rise.

Question 2.2.1 - scalability of Mutex
In both, the time per mutex-protected operation is positiviely correlasted with
the number of theads. But with lists, it increases at a faster rate. My graph
shows a decreasing function for list but I am aware it is not supposed to.

Question 2.2.2 - scalability of spin locks
Time per protected operation is positively correlated with number of threads
for list operations. The time per protected op increases faster for spin locks
than mutex. This is because mutex threads go to sleep and wait for a lock while
spin locks keep spinning, adding overhead. This is why both graphs increase
but spin locks increase faster.